Cisco's CSIRT
The US-CERT, CERT-EU, FIRST, APCERT and the CERT Division of the Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon University logos
Many large organizations have a Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) to receive, review and respond to computer security incident reports. Cisco CSIRT goes a step further and provides proactive threat assessment, mitigation planning, incident trend analysis and security architecture review in an effort to prevent security incidents from happening.

Cisco’s CSIRT takes a proactive approach, collaborating with the Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams (FIRST), the National Safety Information Exchange (NSIE), the Defense Security Information Exchange (DSIE) and the DNS Operations Analysis and Research Center (DNS-OARC) to ensure we stay up-to-date with new developments.

There are several national and public CSIRT organizations, like the CERT Division of the Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, that are available to help organizations and national CSIRTs to develop, operate and improve their incident management capabilities.

Security Playbook
One of the best ways to prepare for a security breach is to prevent it. Organizations should provide guidance on:

how to identify the cybersecurity risk to systems, assets, data and capabilities
the implementation of safeguards and personnel training
a flexible response plan that minimizes the impact and damage in the event of a security breach
security measures and processes that need to be put in place in the aftermath of a security breach.
All this information should be compiled into a security playbook.

A security playbook is a collection of repeatable queries or reports that outline a standardized process for incident detection and response. Ideally, a security playbook should:

highlight how to identify and automate the response to common threats such as the detection of malware-infected machines, suspicious network activity or irregular authentication attempts.
describe and clearly define inbound and outbound traffic.
provide summary information including trends, statistics and counts.
provide usable and quick access to key statistics and metrics.
correlate events across all relevant data sources.

Tools for Incident Detection and Prevention
There are a range of tools used to detect and prevent security incidents.

A Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) system collects and analyzes security alerts, logs and other real-time and historical data from security devices on the network to facilitate early detection of cyber attacks.
A Data Loss Prevention (DLP) system is designed to stop sensitive data from being stolen from or escaping a network. It monitors and protects data in three different states: data in use (data being accessed by a user), data in motion (data traveling through the network) and data at rest (data stored in a computer network or device).

Cisco’s ISE and TrustSec
Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE) and TrustSec enforce user access to network resources by creating role-based access control policies.